---
status: published
layout: post
title: "It's Alive"
date: 2016-01-18 11:27:40 -0500
comments: true
categories:
---

Man this was time consuming. I've been working on this for the last 7 and hours or so. It's still not "done" but it's working! In all honesty, this would've been a lot smoother had I not already had an existing Github Pages repo. I should've just nuked the entire repository and octopress installation hours ago, started over, everything would've just worked. When I installed Octopress, it tried to migrate the existing repo, which was another nightmare altogether because of the exisitng master branch. When I eventually fixed that by deleting everything in master, cloning the branch and setting the cloned branch as default, then deleting the master branch. Then when I ran Octopress it was able to create its own master branch and all was right with that portion of the site.

After that I spent a long time trying to get ruby/jekyll to generate the pages. Trying to debug errors completely unrelated to my problem was where I spent a majority of my time. I know _nothing_ about Ruby, and the only thing I know really about Jekyll is that it can use Markdown and Github Pages uses it by default, so this was a very terrible few hours. I ended up figuring out that all of the problems were related to ```_config.yml```. Specifially because the old and new configs became merged into a hideous mutant config that was breaking everything. The only reason I figured it out was because I noticed Jekyll was trying to copy the files to ```_sites``` and Octopress wanted them to go in ```Public```.


``` Ruby About half of this code block was missing https://github.com/octopress/octopress#configuration
# Default extension for new posts and pages
post_ext: markdown
page_ext: html

# Default templates for posts and pages
# Found in _templates/
post_layout: post
page_layout: page

# Format titles with titlecase?
titlecase: true

# Change default template file (in _templates/)
post_template: post
page_template: page
draft_template: draft
```

``` Ruby Took me a while to figure out that this wasn't supposed to be in the _config.yml... https://github.com/Soulflare3/soulflare3.github.io/commit/22348b88209af1f2879bd4f2f15110c9c6e64fab
<<<<<<< HEAD

>>>>>>> dcc1c7bfddd839e021ed5ecb4d6350a29e7858f3
```

It'll take some time to get used to Jekyll/Octopress, but it already feels quite powerful. I had been poking around [Aaron Gustafson's site](https://www.aaron-gustafson.com/) when I came across [this post](https://www.aaron-gustafson.com/notebook/a-grand-experiment/), which got me interested in the idea, along with the fact that Ghost has been pretty annoying and bare as of late. In order to even update the software I had to take everything offline, nuke the software, and hope the upgrade goes well. To edit any parts of the website theme, you had to make your changes and stop/start cycle the software EVERY time just to see the change. I finally had enough of it an decided I may as well start using Github. There's still some setup to do, and I have to go back and manually categorize all of the posts (the ghost>>jekyll exporter didn't grab them) but so far I'm liking Octopress now that everything is actually working.

I also like that I can easily spin up a temporary copy of my site whilst editing, and see changes in realtime before making anything live. Ghost had a preview function, but it only worked for one post or page. Jekyll lets you preview the _entire_ site and all of the changes. Very nice. Also moving from databases to static files is going pretty well.